Let's talk about price to earnings now which is my favorite valuation methodology.
So by the end of this section you will understand what PE is or price to earnings. Why it's important
value a company and how the process works.
OK so price to earnings is very similar to price to revenue except the company is profitable and you
really factor in the growth rate more often when you do see them when you do price to revenue and that's
called a PEG ratio or PDG.
I'll show you in a second.
Okay.
So a couple of the company using trades on a P that's in line with its growth rate.
Okay that's just the way it works.
And so an example is that a company that has earnings growing at 20 percent per year usually trades
at a price earnings multiple or a P E multiple of 20 times earnings.
Right.
Close enough.
It's a company that has earnings growing at only 10 percent per year.
Trades at 10 times earnings.
OK.
So it trades at a discounted price earnings valuation because it's growing at half the growth of the
other company listed above there.
So should trade at a 50 percent discount because growth is 50 percent lower.
All right.
Great.
So the stock market usually trades around 15 times earnings.
OK.
Around that amount and that's because the stock market usually has earnings growing at around 15 percent
.
This methodology is very easy.
OK so if a company misses earnings estimates by say 20 percent like say they report earnings after hours
and they missed by 20 percent the stock usually gaps down 20 percent.
There's a gap in the chart and vice versa.
Ok so price earnings is the same thing as market capitalization divided by net income.
And a PEG ratio as PDG or price earnings to growth measures that P relative to its growth rate.
OK.
So stocks that usually have a PEG ratio below one are cheap and stocks have a PEG ratio above two are
expensive.
And it all depends on what market environment we're in.
So a company that trades at 20 times earnings right and has earnings growing at 20 percent has a peg
of one times.
OK that's good value and a company that has that is it 20 times earnings growth double that or 40 percent
trades at a price earnings to growth rate a point five times.
And this is often a bargain right.
Usually a good buy idea.
Now a company that trades at 20 times earnings and has a growth rate of 10 percent is expensive right
.
Is that a peg of two.
And quite often hedge funds look to short this type of company